hello and welcome to my next installment
of meet the author today I am sitting
down with the incredible and the
inspirational Michelle Obama and we're
gonna be talking about her book for
coming hello mrs. Obama is it okay if I
call you Michelle of course great to see
you again
you - I'm really good thank you very
much I just want to say how much I
absolutely love this book like you're
the most phenomenal storyteller and I
know that's what you're like from your
personality you're very open and honest
and that really shines through in every
little bit of the book from the very
first moment first chapter I was sucked
in especially because I was listening to
you on audiobook and I was listening to
you tell me the stories of your life and
I really felt like I was very much there
so well done it's something you should
be really proud of brilliant I'm not the
only one that thinks it's great you have
sold 2 million copies in the US alone
best-selling author of 2018 in two weeks
did not anticipate any of that exciting
it's good to know that the book is
resonating with so many different people
I think that was my hope all along that
the story would connect with people of
all backgrounds all over the world so
I'm excited mmm it is brilliant and for
anyone out there that hasn't read the
book please get out and buy it because
it's absolutely amazing
as I was listening I was writing down
lots of questions so can we get to it
your words are so beautiful so I'm going
to just quote some of them back to you I
grew up with a disabled dad in a two
small house with not much money and is
starting to fail neighborhood and I also
grew up surrounded by love and music in
a diverse city in a country where an
education can take you far
I had nothing or I had everything it
depends on which way you want to tell it
and tell it you did you absolutely bare
your soul in this book and at times that
must have been quite painful and
difficult how did you go about preaching
writing something so deeply personal
well part of the thinking was that if I
was going to tell my story
because a lot of people are curious how
did a girl a working-class kid from the
south side of Chicago wind up is the
first lady with all the accomplishments
that we had and in thinking about that I
thought well the eight years in the
White House is the least of my story you
know it doesn't really explain anything
so I felt like I had to give people the
context of my life I had to introduce
them to that little girl Michelle
Robinson and give them a sense of what
the sights and sounds of that little
girl's life was like how she played how
she was loved you know who she
interacted with some of her hardships
some of her failings because I really do
think that that's how we get to know
people you know too often we focus on
what I call our stats what school did
you go to where did you know how what's
your occupation but the truth is to
really get to know people we have to go
deep into those stories and I and I felt
that if I wanted people to get to know
me I had to share everything so that was
part of the thinking and that's really
the way I've lived my life I learned
that on the campaign trail in Iowa when
I had to explain myself to predominantly
white communities who hadn't been
exposed to black folks let alone it's
all black people named Obama so I had to
find out how to open myself up in a way
that people could connect with me and
then be able to hear me so this book is
really just an extension of that belief
that we have to share those stories with
each other if we're really going to
break down the barriers and you shed
them so well and I feel like your mother
Marian Robinson had a really big part to
play in that she says as parents you're
not raising they maybes you're raising
adults how do you feel in reality what
did that actually mean for you and your
brother Craig when you were growing up
well that meant that our voices had real
value in our house there are some people
who raise kids in
they use the philosophy kids are to be
seen and not heard and it was just the
opposite for us I mean we sat around the
dinner table at night and we told
stories about our day and when you grow
up with parents who not only respect
your voice but enjoy your voice that's
how I felt in our home that my parents
thought we were brilliant and funny and
they wanted us to you know I say in the
book my parents knew that there was a
flame in me that they wanted to keep lit
and that's what I call Zen neutrality
and parenting I described my mother in
that way it's that gift of understanding
that to empower children in the long
term you have to give them that space in
that room to be themselves when they're
young so ours was a household full of
lots of conversation lots of debate
one-upping each other in storytelling
and that wasn't just true in our
immediate family but we grew up in a
vast extended family that I described in
detail grandparents and aunts and uncles
and cousins and second cousins and when
you grow up in a big family you find
that you have to you know use your voice
to get a word in edgewise and I grew up
in a family of storytellers so if that's
why you're so good at this stories it's
probably part of the reason why I'm good
at I also describe myself as that little
girl when I was young I was very much in
my head you know I talked about how I
played with my dolls and I'd love to
create this imaginary world and I could
spend hours on in just playing alone and
in thinking about this question I think
that because I spent so much time in my
head before I was ready to get out there
and interact I lived with stories in my
head you know I could I could play all
day so storytelling for me is a way that
I can sort out the world and have it
make sense and it was always that way
for me even as a child but the parenting
really matters and I try to share that
with with the audiences that
I talk too we have to give children the
space to be and and to be who they are
and you know as a mother kids come here
with their own personality you know
bringing up twins at the same time you
can get the exact same everything but
that completely different right right
and I think my parents sort of
understood that so they didn't expect
the same thing for me as they did for my
brother
but they did treat us as equals which I
think played a big role in me being a
powerful woman with a powerful voice I
was used to being respected in my home
so I went out into the world and I
expected that same treatment from others
you've had many different careers in
your life you attended Princeton and
then became a high-flying lawyer you
were a powerhouse at City Hall director
of a variety of community
not-for-profits and then a reluctant can
be a political campaigner you call this
swerving mm-hm and I absolutely loved
that term because I had a dramatic
swerve myself and where I trained to be
a doctor worked as a doctor and then
became a businesswoman and so I
completely understand how dreams and
aspirations can change you talk about
the worries that you had about other
people judging your career choices
especially leaving law how did you
overcome that and what would you say to
others facing the same dilemma mm-hmm
well the first thing that I had to
overcome was my own guilt because when
you'd spend so much time and money in my
case taking out student loans I came out
of Law School with a lot of debt the
notion that I wouldn't want to invest
financially to recoup that you know that
initial investment was a struggle for me
especially growing up as a working-class
kid you know I talked about the
conversation I have with my mother where
I was trying to break down how I wasn't
passionate about my career and I I felt
guilty talking to a woman who had
sacrificed so much for me and probably
never had the luxury of thinking about
something as trivial as passion you know
so explaining that to a working-class
family how you're going to walk away
from a solid career and a solid income
to you know pursue what's deep in your
heart you know my parents didn't I'm
with a your biggest worry when you
decided to me and initially they were
but also that it was part of the
challenge was what else was I gonna do
you know that that's part I describe
myself as a box checker because that's
what how we teach kids it's like there's
a path you pick a career when you're
seven you study that career in
elementary school you go to college you
get a major and life choices are not
that orderly but that's how we train
kids and I was right on that path and I
knew how to achieve I knew how to get
aids and how to get to the next level
but no one taught me how to dig deep
inside my soul and figure out what I
cared about and we don't talk to kids
about what they care about we talk about
what they should major in what they
should study and those two things are
very different so part of the struggle
was figuring I had to relearn how to
educate myself about who I was school
didn't teach me that all those degrees
all those fancy schools didn't help me
connect into who I needed to be as a
person so I had to rewind all that
learning I mean it's such a shame
because the education systems really
should stone that from the very
beginning yeah we struggle you know I
mean I think the challenge is that
education systems are developed for
masses of teaching but every kid is so
different and if you don't have the
resources to individualize the the
educational curriculum then you're
really pushing kids through a funnel
that may not fit them and that's
something that I worry about and see now
and in my girls especially with the
standardized testing and having to post
the exams and get on to the next level
and write this notion that you're going
to learn something with innocent that
every kid is going to learn in the same
way at the same time is is is disastrous
and it it creates box checkers who then
go on to careers that may not fulfill
them and then there
I'm good at it so the tough part for me
was relearning all you know and figuring
all that out on my own and so I had to
find people who could help me yeah I did
what I called informational interviews I
had to go out and just meet people who
were doing all sorts of things that
seemed interesting to figure out what I
cared about was it kids
or was it working with kids was it
mentoring was it education I didn't know
I hadn't explored it because I was on
the path to be a lawyer so that was the
hardest thing for me to to understand
how to do is to walk away from the
formal training that I had gotten and to
swerve into something more creating so
would your advice be to others it is
important to find your passion it is
absolutely important and I encourage
young people to try on different hats I
think it's a shame that kids are forced
to figure out so early in their life and
get on a path so I encourage kids to do
internships to work to talk to people
who are doing things that they think are
interesting because most kids are
intimidated about approaching you for
example and saying Holly you've done
some swerving tell me about what you're
what you're doing and having those
conversations in high school and in
college before you commit to something
but I think kids feel the pressure to
have to know what there is such a young
age exactly 16 17 18 making these big
life decisions in one of the first lines
in the first chapters question that I
hate the most that we asked children is
what do you want to be when you grow up
as if growing up is finite is if you get
to a place and at some point that's the
end and that's sort of one of our big
dilemmas that we ask kids so early to
figure out who you're going to be at
five and seven and ten and even 20 years
old so I do encourage young people to be
open to the swerve and don't beat
themselves up if they feel they may be
not made the the right first choice
because life Holly is long
and as you know we can have many lives
within a life we are always evolving
that is why I called the book becoming
you know this notion that we that we
ever stopped evolving is just wrong yeah
you didn't call it become so while you
were building your incredible career you
were put in charge of an intern a man
that you described as a unicorn a
strange mixture of everything man an
exotic geek and fair to say it was by no
means that love at first sight your
words but it did become love for the
rest of your life is it possible to put
that love you fill into words and has
the texture of that love changed over
the last two decades oh well I tried to
put it in words but it is difficult
because the love you feel for a partner
it evolves and it it has so many
different layers right it's the it's the
first love that you feel when you're
you're giddy and you're falling and it's
new and it's exciting and every aspect
of that person is fresh you know there's
there's that part of the love that's
always there the sort of you know
unpeeling of each other and that was
what first attracted me to Barack was
that he was so different from me you
know he had swerved his whole life his
bad didn't seems bother him he was
completely comfortable with it and then
knowing that in the context of his
childhood and upbringing which was very
different from mine that was a curiosity
you know we grew up with the solid
stability of the four of us at the
dinner table my father had a job my
mother stayed at home they were we were
very traditional you know he didn't know
his father his mother travelled and she
was getting her PhD and she lived in
other countries and exposed him to
travel and so swerving was all he knew
and I knew stability so I think that
sort of that contradiction that we found
in ourselves was was the first part of
that life opposite attracted yeah
absolutely
and then I respected his choices so it
wasn't just his life
it was the choices he was making with it
the fact that he was a lawyer but he
cared very much about the community that
he had taken time off to be a community
organizer which is something you just
don't find people young people who were
taking time out to figure out how to
help others in their own communities
that was attractive to me the way he
treated his mother the way he treated
the women in his life the way he treated
those that were were of a lesser
standing than him so when we work
together in the law firm I fell in love
with the fact that he was kind to
everyone so there's that bit of it so
yes the relationship does grow and
change and so now we've built this life
together and we've had all these
journeys together and we've had all
these hardships and we've you know
raised two beautiful children and
there's the love that comes when you see
the man that you love care for your
children that's a whole different layer
of love and nothing can replace those
memories you know that's more important
to me than what he accomplished as
president of the United States or
anything that he's done on paper the
fact that he is a good father to my
daughters is it's a powerful aphrodisiac
so yes it's it's it's difficult to put
it into a few words because it's it's a
lifetime of learning and growing and
falling and recovering together well
you've done it so well at putting into
words because if I was asked the same
question I think the English and English
sort of person to me would have really
struggled with that so I know you've
really done what honest but that was the
assignment of the blue yeah it's like I
had it open right yeah openness possible
and I also want young married couples to
be open about what love is and what does
that feel like I don't think we talked
about that enough so I think there are
young people out there a figure
now well is this lust feeling I have is
that good does it last forever what
happens when that goes away does that
mean it's broken
you know and and when you're like us and
you're a couple that's viewed as a role
model to others I feel it's like our
responsibility to tell the whole story
so that people know that beautiful
marriages have challenges and there are
ups and downs and that doesn't mean that
it's broken it means that you have to
work at it but no one tells young people
that marriage is work we talk about the
love we talk about the wedding we talk
about the good times but we don't talk
about how you sustain it year after year
after year again it's very lucky we both
had parents that stay together I really
let me see it and I and I my parents
have been very open when my brother and
I about the fact that and they're open
they've been open with us and we just
met them so your parents are example of
a couple who is very clear and honest
about who they are and what it took for
them to be as strong as they are now so
I you know I I feel like that's that's a
gift we're supposed to give others you
know yeah
and it's definitely in love that's got
you both through tough times especially
the struggles getting pregnant and I've
experienced miscarriages I've been
through IVF as well why did you feel you
needed to share that bit of your life
story which was very very personal for
the same reason it's we don't talk about
those things and when I was in that
position I wished I had more people who
would tell me that it would be okay that
this happens to more people than we know
and it wasn't till I experienced it and
then slowly started talking about it and
then you meet so many women who were
like that was my that was my journey
that was mine and I didn't even realize
how common miscarriages were and that's
something you know you sort of think
that OB guy knees would just sit down
and tell us that at the outset that this
is how it works
yeah and sometimes your whole life
trying not together exactly and then no
one tells you that it it's not just a
magical thing that happens
so I think you know as I my parents
taught me more information is better you
know giving giving young people the
truth helps them in the long run so I
felt like I had to share my truth and it
wasn't a difficult thing for me to share
anybody who meets me I would have the
same conversation so why I couldn't see
not sharing with the world what I would
share with anyone who I was trying to
help I felt the same when I was going
through the experience that it took me
ten months a year to openly say yes I'm
trying for maybe it's not happening I
wish I'd done it earlier but once I open
that floodgate I was like I'm so
thankful that I have now got it off my
own chest and also helping others to
understand that it does happen to people
absolutely and there can be happy
endings there are many many happy
endings so yeah I'd love to touch in
your support systems throughout becoming
you list amazing female mentors and Lidl
leaders who have advised and supported
you you also admit you actively sought
out these strong women what would you
say to young women and to young men
about the importance of seeking out
strong mentors and what did they mean to
you oh my goodness you you don't do
anything alone and I think a lot of
young people think they look at people
like us and think you just magically
appeared you became and there you are
and it's like no no I always looked
ahead of me at the women primarily who
were doing the things that I wanted to
do I talk a lot about Valerie Jarrett
for example who has worked in our
administration but I met her very early
on before Barack and I even got married
and she for me was one of the first
examples of a strong professional woman
who was a single parent
who was doing a phenomenal job as a
mother and was just a boss at work and
watching her balance that and not losing
herself in either role you know I talk
about how I'd sit in a meeting with her
and she'd be in the midst of you know
business leaders sitting around the
Abell the mayor on the phone and her
secretary would call and say her
daughter had just got home from school
and wanted to talk and she turned
herself off in a second because she said
I will always make time for my daughter
you know so I saw how important it was
that even in the height of your career
putting your kids first was important
and that helped me sort of think about
how I wanted the White House experience
to feel for my daughters that's why we
you know in so many instances we would
stop our day you know no matter what was
going on and give that time to the kids
because we wanted them to feel like they
were at the center of everything even
when their mom and dad were some of the
most powerful people in the world so I
wouldn't have known that that example
was possible had I not looked ahead at
the the women who were my mentors and I
loved the story in the book where you
pick up three-month-old sasha and go to
a job interview oh yeah and you take her
with you and you say to the interviewer
look I'm a family woman you need if you
want me you need to have my family too
and I need to be able to have flex for
working that was way ahead of its time
well that was an act of complete
frustration and desperation because I
also talked about how I had tried it so
many different ways I had tried the
part-time situation when I was at the
University and I first had Malia and I
realized that part-time worked for
professional women was it was an unequal
trade-off because I found that all I got
was a part-time salary but I was still
doing the same amount of work and needed
the same amount of babysitting so I was
like well that's a ripoff
for me so I tried that then I was at the
stage of trying I was just so completely
frustrate it I had lost one of my best
babysitter's and I talked about the the
the drama that happens when a working
mother or a mother of any kind loses
their help and it's almost worse than
you know being upset at your husband
it's like you I don't need the
babysitter I need her but at that point
I was ready to just give up because I
was tired of trying to make the balance
work so what led me what gave me the
courage to walk into that the president
of the hospital's office with my child
was that I didn't want the job and I was
just going out of a favor so I felt like
I had nothing to lose and that also
taught me that it's a shame that I had
to be pushed to the corner for me to to
really ask for what I needed because I
think a lot of women were afraid to just
put our cards on the table and say this
is what I'm worth this is what I need to
make this happen I can do this but if
you don't it these are my top three
things I would have never had the
courage to do it and I think many women
sit on their talents and their gifts
because they're afraid to make that ass
sometimes we're too polite in the
professional world and and many women
don't have the luxury or the leverage to
make the kind of demands I that I did
because I had the option of staying home
because my husband brought in enough
income that we it would be tough but it
wouldn't have been impossible and I
absolutely realized that I I was lucky
to be able to walk in that office and
make those demands so it's so brilliant
that you did I truly believe that
flexible working is the only way we're
going to get full equality in a
workplace because men being flexible
with their work and women as well well
and so it's so important and you were
version of the curve are doing that
already you know we just don't call it
flex you know people just don't get the
credit that they need people are
juggling and managing to keep things
afloat all the time
so we just haven't labeled it properly
it's happening and people aren't getting
the credit for doing it but if you work
and have kids you're doing something
flexible in there to make that happen
we just need to label it you're a mom of
two children juggling a full time career
and your husband decides to run for
president of the United States and you
admit that you struggle with politics as
a career choice for anyone so he then
came and asked you whether he you gave
him the family seal of approval to do it
but you admitted Barack was a black man
in America after all I didn't really
think he could win and how wrong you
were I was
so wrong we'd like going back to that
night if you could would your question
have been your answer to the questions
have been any different no it wouldn't
have because I believe that I I needed
to give him the opportunity to pursue
his passions and I also talked about the
fact that I would have felt guilty by
selfishly not letting the country have
access to somebody I thought would be a
phenomenal president even though I then
didn't think he could run so I had to
sort of take off my wife hat and put on
my citizen hat yeah so I think the
answer would still have been yes so the
big day arrives this is the front page
of The Times at the inauguration can you
remember what was going through your
head at that time it was freezing cold
first of all and I was and and I and I
was thinking are the kids warm did I
dress them well enough because they were
standing off to the sides there's still
whenever your kids are around for me I'm
still very much in mommy mode
you know what you do when you have two
young kids at a big event with it the
the international spotlight is on them
I'm thinking are they cold are they
paying attention they smiling at the
right are they smiling but then there
are moments where I had to take it in
and look out at the massive crowd that
was there and sort of the energy and
that hope the fact that millions and
millions of people stood out in the
freezing cold to see him take the oath
of office and it was it was powerful it
was a monumental day in history it's
huge my my dream and the core message of
my first book we economy is that one day
all businesses will be purposeful that
they'll all be forces for good in the
world and I was heartened to learn that
when it came to your initiatives as
first lady such as let's move the child
nutrition bill and encouraging big
business to employ veterans you appealed
that very sense of purpose what role do
you think businesses should play in
society i I think that corporations are
citizens of the world in the same way
that individuals are I know that that's
not necessarily how the free market
works but that's how businesses of old
used to work you know there was the time
when a business was a part of the
community the owners lived in the
community and employed workers they they
knew the people there so when they made
decisions it was hard to look beyond
that the fact that your decisions
impacted your neighbors and your family
and your friends I wish that businesses
still had that sense of fiduciary
responsibility to the broader society
and I think we need more leaders who
think that way as well but I we are in a
time when you have to tie purpose to the
bottom line which is one of the things I
always tried to do so with health and
nutrition for example my arguments of
food manufacturers was get ahead of the
curve because people are being educated
about their health and they're gonna
make different decisions as consumers so
it's incumbent upon you to look at the
quality of your products and how you
market them so that you meet the demands
of the people who are buying them and
then we tried to focus on the customer
and tell them you have power in this you
know that what you buy is what they'll
make and if you buy junk
they'll make junk so it wasn't just the
average advocacy but we tried to put our
selves in the positions of the of the
business owners what would that you know
you can't tell you know a person making
a big juicy high-calorie burger to stop
making it if that's what people are
buying it's it's it's a you know it's
it's not a responsible or logical thing
to expect but if people now are buying
healthier options that burger maker is
gonna make it's gonna make the switch
because they want the customer so we
would think in those terms as we started
to develop our initiatives I was moved
by your desire to open up the White
House to many many more people including
military families injured servicemen and
women and you regularly invited
schoolchildren to come from all over the
country to work with you
on your newly installed vegetable garden
you used a beautiful quote about your
father Fraser right at the beginning of
the book time as far as my father was
concerned was a gift you gave to other
people I absolutely love that what was
it was that what drove you as first lady
to push through more diverse and
inclusive White House that that and just
my experiences as a kid and with kids
growing up kids can only dream of what
they know and I know and I grew up with
so many kids who didn't have the
advantages I had even though we were a
working-class family I grew up in
neighborhoods where a kid could live
five minutes from a museum and never
think they could go into it because they
didn't think it was for them I know that
that's how kids think and the white
house is just another big museum that
feels like an other place so I thought
about all those kids who needed to walk
in those doors and feel like all that
wonderful stuff that they saw on TV that
we do the military greetings and the
state visits and the dinners and the
music performances I wanted as many kids
as possible to feel like they belong to
in those chairs too and the only way to
do that was to open it up and invite
them in I wanted kids running all over
the South Lawn I wanted kids to talk
about how they regularly came and helped
build that garden and have a sense of
pride in the house that is theirs
but you can't send that message if kids
don't see themselves in those hallways
so I wanted every event to be connected
to kids in some way so that whatever was
sent out into the world kids would see
themselves in that house and then those
kids will go back and tell that and read
and so tell them and maybe they go to
the museum down their street or think
about that the the city hall in their
own community as a place that they
should go and explore so we did a social
media competition where we got lots
people to send in the questions they
wanted to ask you and we've got a winner
from one called Natasha on Instagram how
do you manage
teach your children the same resilience
that you have shown through your life
when they have many privileges that you
did not have growing up and I was
actually really interested in this one
for my own children as well that's a
very good question it's there are many
different approaches that we try to use
normalizing their experience setting the
same set of expectations for our
children that our parents had for us you
know contributing around the house not
taking your your advantages for granted
you know it's the conversations about
advantage as well pushing them to to to
face their own fears and that's the
hardest part as a parent because that
means you have to let your kids go and
do things that are a little frightening
for you like sending them off to a way
on a trip
I mean Melia for her gap year spent
three months in the Amazon camping I
didn't want her to do that but I thought
what what an important lesson in
resilience for her just physically to
know that she could endure something
that hard and be away from home in a
different country learning a different
language so I had to have the courage to
let her do that
even though I desperately wanted her to
just be close to home so some of what we
have to do as parents is let go of our
fears and let them fail a little bit and
be there for them when they fall because
if we're always saving them if we're
always helicoptering around they never
fall and they never learn how to get
back up and that's a hard thing to what
your kids do is fail I know it's
something my dad always said to me it
was the importance of failure I was a
bit like you at school I found it quite
I worked hard because I knew how to pass
the exams so I never really experienced
that failure of it and passed my driving
test when I rang him up to say to add
I've passed my driving test he was like
oh
it's like he's saying oh he's like I
really wanted you to fail because it's
so important to fail at something and
it's also who they're surrounded with
because maybe the failure isn't theirs
but if they are put in circumstances
where they see hardship and they they
you know whether it's in their
communities or through volunteerism you
know exposing them to all the different
challenges that other people face even
if it isn't their challenge so service
was a huge part of it you know having
them in schools where some kind of
mandatory community service was a part
of the curriculum has always been
important to me so there are many ways
to do it it depends on your
circumstances but kids will model what
they see at home and the values that are
promoted at home so whether they have a
lot or a little they still know what
their parents believe and what they
expect just as you have known which is
why your business you focus on
businesses with purpose that had nothing
to do with the fact that you grew up in
hardship but you grew up with parents
who expected you to give back and that
stuck with you and I can only hope that
Malia and Sasha will be as as giving and
as generous as as you are thank you very
much the other another question lots of
people asked was would you ever run for
president of the United States but well
I'm going to say to all those people is
it is answered in the book so go out and
buy the book and read it and you'll get
your answer because that was the
probably the question that was asked the
most one of my biggest takeaways is your
wonderful quote work with purpose parent
with care and I really think that's our
motto to live your life by so thank you
so much for that and also thank you very
much for the interview today it's been
really lovely seeing you again
you